1. PLOS Glob Public Health. 2023 Feb 1;3(2):e0001305. doi: 
10.1371/journal.pgph.0001305. eCollection 2023.

Global trends in antimicrobial use in food-producing animals: 2020 to 2030.

Mulchandani R(1), Wang Y(1), Gilbert M(2)(3), Van Boeckel TP(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Health Geography and Policy Group, ETH Zürich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(2)Spatial Epidemiology Lab, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium.
(3)Fonds National de la Recherche Scientifique, Brussels, Belgium.
(4)Center for Diseases Dynamics, Economics, and Policy, New Delhi, India.

Use of antimicrobials in farming has enabled the growth of intensive animal 
production and helped in meeting the global increase in demand for animal 
protein. However, the widespread use of veterinary antimicrobials drives 
antimicrobial resistance, with important consequences for animal health, and 
potentially human health. Global monitoring of antimicrobial use is essential: 
first, to track progress in reducing the reliance of farming on antimicrobials. 
Second, to identify countries where antimicrobial-stewardship efforts should be 
targeted to curb antimicrobial resistance. Data on usage of antimicrobials in 
food animals were collected from 42 countries. Multivariate regression models 
were used in combination with projections of animal counts for cattle, sheep, 
chicken, and pigs from the Food and Agriculture Organization to estimate global 
antimicrobial usage of veterinary antimicrobials in 2020 and 2030. Maps of 
animal densities were used to identify geographic hotspots of antimicrobial use. 
In each country, estimates of antimicrobial use (tonnes) were calibrated to 
match continental-level reports of antimicrobial use intensity (milligrams per 
kilogram of animal) from the World Organization for Animal Health, as well as 
country-level reports of antimicrobial use from countries that made this 
information publicly available. Globally, antimicrobial usage was estimated at 
99,502 tonnes (95% CI 68,535-198,052) in 2020 and is projected, based on current 
trends, to increase by 8.0% to 107,472 tonnes (95% CI: 75,927-202,661) by 2030. 
Hotspots of antimicrobial use were overwhelmingly in Asia (67%), while <1% were 
in Africa. Findings indicate higher global antimicrobial usage in 2030 compared 
to prior projections that used data from 2017; this is likely associated with an 
upward revision of antimicrobial use in Asia/Oceania (~6,000 tonnes) and the 
Americas (~4,000 tonnes). National-level reporting of antimicrobial use should 
be encouraged to better evaluate the impact of national policies on 
antimicrobial use levels.

Copyright: © 2023 Mulchandani et al. This is an open access article distributed 
under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgph.0001305
PMCID: PMC10021213
PMID: 36963007

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared no competing interests 
exist.