1. Mod Pathol. 2023 Sep;36(9):100249. doi: 10.1016/j.modpat.2023.100249. Epub 2023 
Jun 21.

Emerging Antimicrobial Resistance.

Flynn CE(1), Guarner J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Christiana Care, Wilmington, Delaware. Electronic 
address: Cynthia.Flynn@christianacare.org.
(2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia.

The burden of emerging antimicrobial resistance (AMR) in the United States is 
significant and even greater worldwide. Mitigation efforts have decreased the 
incidence and deaths from antimicrobial-resistant organisms in the United 
States. Yet more than 2.8 million antimicrobial-resistant infections occur every 
year and more than 35,000 patients die as a result. Infection prevention and 
control, data tracking, antimicrobial stewardship, vaccines, therapeutics, 
diagnostics, and sanitation are all required to decrease AMR threats. In 2019, 
in the second version of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) 
report on antibiotic-resistant threats, the agency categorized AMR threats as 
urgent, serious, concerning, or to be watched. This review will discuss the 
following aspects of each bacterium in the CDC report: estimated numbers of 
cases and deaths, identify the better known and impactful mechanisms of 
resistance, diagnostic testing and its limitations, and current and possible 
future therapies. This review also presents anatomical pathology case examples 
that highlight the altered morphology of antibiotic partially treated bacteria 
in tissues.

Copyright Â© 2023 United States & Canadian Academy of Pathology. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.modpat.2023.100249
PMID: 37353202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]