1. Animal. 2024 Feb;18(2):101060. doi: 10.1016/j.animal.2023.101060. Epub 2023 Dec 
21.

Global antimicrobial use in livestock farming: an estimate for cattle, chickens, 
and pigs.

Ardakani Z(1), Aragrande M(2), Canali M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural and Food Science, University of Bologna, Viale 
Giuseppe Fanin 44, Bologna 40127, Italy. Electronic address: 
zahra.ardakani@unibo.it.
(2)Department of Agricultural and Food Science, University of Bologna, Viale 
Giuseppe Fanin 44, Bologna 40127, Italy.

Livestock farming substantially contributes to the global economy and food 
security. However, it poses crucial environmental, animal welfare, and public 
health challenges. The main objective of this study is to quantify the global 
antimicrobial use (AMU) in cattle, chicken, and pig farming. This information is 
important for understanding the potential impact of farm AMU on the emergence 
and spread of antimicrobial resistance among animals and humans. Using the 
United States Department of Agriculture Production, Supply, and Distribution and 
the Food and Agriculture Organization databases, we estimated the total supply 
of cattle (in heads) and its distribution into four weight categories: calves 
(26%), cows (41%), heifers (4%), and bulls of more than one year (29%). 
Similarly, we calculated the total supply of pigs (in heads) and divided it into 
two weight categories: pigs (96%) and sows (4%). For chickens, we considered one 
weight category. We attributed to each category a standard weight according to 
the parameters set by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) to determine the 
animal biomass at risk of antimicrobial treatment, or population correction unit 
(PCU). Finally, we estimated the global PCUs and then the global AMU based on 
the average administered to the three species (in mg of active ingredients per 
kg PCU). With this method, we estimated a global annual AMU of 76 060 tonnes of 
antimicrobial active ingredients (2019-2021 average), of which 40 697 tonnes (or 
53.5%) for cattle, 4 243 tonnes (or 5.6%) for chickens, and 31 120 tonnes (or 
40.9%) for pigs. According to our assessment, global AMU leads to almost 20 000 
tonnes less than the previous estimates due to a different evaluation of PCUs. 
In previous studies, PCUs were calculated on the liveweight at slaughtering of 
animals, while our method considers the age and sex of animals and their average 
weight at treatment. Our results are consistent with the World Organization for 
Animal Health (WOAH) estimate of 76 704 tonnes of veterinary antimicrobials 
globally consumed in 2018 for the total of food-producing animals (the WOAH 
estimation is based on sales and import data).

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.animal.2023.101060
PMID: 38217891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]